sim Tech can be installed on top of an
8-inch minimum width port concrete wall
or on flat concrete using sim Tech's
concrete shoe
concrete shoes are a heavy steel plate
with vertical members it attaches to the
concrete with anchors and to the posts
with bolts specific concrete shoes are
available for end posts line posts and
corner posts skirts and six colors to
match wall colors cover the plates and
anchor bolts for a finished look cut the
posts to seventy three and a half inches
if the concrete surface is level posts
may need to be cut longer to accommodate
slopes if the concrete wall is stepped
always cut off the bottom of the posts
retaining the factory finished close to
top panel support brackets are
unnecessary when using concrete shoes
the panels will sit directly on the wall
or driveway surface start with either a
corner or an end post locate the
concrete shoe and equal distance from
the edges of the concrete mark the
position of the plate drill all four
holes through the pre-drilled holes in
the steel plate
next install for concrete anchor bolts
with a minimum tension and shared
strength of at least 4,000 pounds
position the bolts to fasten the
mounting plate of the shoe place the
shoe over the bolts and attach the shoes
to concrete with specified fasteners if
the concrete surface is not level
washers may be placed over anchor bolts
and before shoes are bolted down to
serve as levelling devices position the
skirt covers over shoes covering the
shoe plates skirts must be inserted
prior to posts being attached
the taxes shoe straps to the post with
fasteners and pre-drilled holes with the
first chute anchored and the post
attached determine and mark the next
shoe position using a steel spacer it
will measure 72 inches from the center
of the post to the center of the next
post repeat the previous steps first
mark and drill the holes second attach
the shoes to the concrete third install
the skirts fourth attach the posts to
the shoes once all shoes and posts are
securely anchor to the concrete wall and
skirts are in place insert the panel's
be certain that steel stiffeners are in
both the top and bottom rails of each
panel once the panels are inserted they
will hold the skirts in position finally
place the caps on the posts for a
finished look gap fillers are designed
to fill the gap primarily on the edge
wear a six foot high wall transitions to
a three foot high wall cut the gap
filler to the desired length and using
two screws attach it from the back side
of the line post this will provide a
finished look with hidden fasteners
these instructions are meant to be both
thorough and concise most questions will
be answered by paying close attention to
details and recommended installation
procedures if you have questions or
encounter unusual circumstances please
contact Simtek for directions to
initiate warranty coverage please
register online as soon as your symptoms
complete Simtek cannot be responsible
for unregistered projects and associated
future warranty claims
thank you for choosing Simtek your
decorative rock wall will provide many
years of trouble-free beauty and owner
satisfaction